All right let's continue our journey.
So the next step now and which is specific to our case study is to compute the reward.
Indeed the word is defined as the difference between the energy spent when we have no AI minus the energy
spent when we have the AI.
And therefore since we've just computed the energy spend when we have no AI and since we also have the
energy spent when we have the AI because we're doing this right after the ai ai plays in action Well
we have everything we need to compute the reward.
And so let's get it in is given by self that reward you know that's our object variable and that's equal
to indeed the difference between the energy spent by that alternative system.
When we have no AI minus the energy spent by our AI and I remind that these two energies are measured
in two separate simulations but that will follow the same evolution of the intrinsic temperature which
will compute soon.
All right so here we go we have the reward we have received the reward right after the AI plays the
action at a specific iteration when we apply the update method.
And now the last step that we can do you know within this main step of the AI framework is to scale
the reward.
So that's not a compulsory step.
However this is highly recommended and by the way this is recommended in the research papers of deep
reinforcement learning and even poncey gradient which is another branch of artificial intelligence.
But scaling the reward will basically stabilize the deep learning computations because if you remember
in the deep learning process.
Well at some point we'll get the targets and the reward is an element of that target.
And so since in a neural network everything is killed Well it will be better for the deep Guler and
computations to scale.
Also the reward.
And that's why we're going to take again here are we word very variable which we're going to multiply
by a scaling factor a small one like one times 10 or the power of minus three which is a simple way
to scale the reward and which is also related to the fact that a normalization of the reward would you
know divided by the maximum absolute value that the can take.
And since the reward is computed by this formula and since this can take values between minus three
and plus three.
Well the maximum value that we can take is approximately this maximum value of the energy spent when
there is no AI and 4 for the approximation.
Since the system when we have no AI brings back the surface temperature to the optimal range.
Well we could say that you know this maximum value is the difference between the maximum temperature
and the minimum temperature or the temperature of the optimal range of temperature.
But if we consider the difference between the max and min temperatures which would correspond to some
normalization Well we would get a factor of 10 of the power of minus 2.
But for even more stabilization.
Well we're actually considering an even lower scaling factor of 10 of the power of minus 3.
And we're going to do the simple scaling of only multiplying this scaling factor which is like dividing
the reward by 0.01 we just multiply that scaling factor by of course sell that reward.
So that now our reward is scaled so that then the deteriorating conditions will be stabilized so that
eventually we'll get better results.
All right.
And that's the first big step inside this environment of day that we're doing through this method which
I remind belongs to the general framework.
We got the reward and now the next step will be to get the next date which I remind is composed of first
the number of users.
You know that's the first element of the input state vector.
Then the second element of the state is the rate of data transmission.
And finally the last element of the state is the server's temperature when there is the AI.
But in order to get that third element we'll need to have first the atmospheric temperature but also
the number of users and the rate of data that's based on assumption 1.
But also the delta of intrinsic temperature because indeed I remind that each of the two separate simulations
when we have the AI and when we have no AI follow the same evolution of intrinsic temperature of the
server.
So that's why we need to get all this first and then that's not for the state but will also need to
update the news of temperature when there is no AI.
Because of course we're keeping track of the evolution of that temperature.
All right.
So let's do this new big step of the general framework getting the next stage in the next tutorial.
And until then enjoy AI.